ABOUT LIBDTS

libdts is a free library for decoding DTS Coherent Acoustics streams. It is
released under the terms of the GPL license. The DTS Coherent Acoustics
standard is used in a variety of applications, including DVD, DTS audio CD and
radio broadcasting.

The main goals in libdts development are:

      *	Portability - currently all of the code is written in C, and
	when we write platform-specific optimizations we will always
	keep a generic C routine to fall back on.

      *	Reuseability - we do not want libdts to include any
	project-specific code, but it should still include enough
	features to be used by very diverse projects.

      *	Precision - we do not yet fully support all the core specification of
        the DTS Coherent Acoustics standard (see TODO) so do not expect too
        much of this library for now.

      *	Speed - current code is not optimised at all.

The project homepage is at http://www.videolan.org/dtsdec.html


DTSDEC

dtsdec is a test program for libdts. It decodes DTS Coherent Acoustics streams,
and also includes a demultiplexer for mpeg-1 and mpeg-2 program streams.

The libdts source code is always distributed in the dtsdec package, to
make sure it easier for people to test it.

The basic usage is to just type "dtsdec file" where file is a DTS Coherent
Acoustics file.

The "-s" option must be used for multiplexed (audio and video) mpeg-2
files. These files are usualy found on the internet or on unencrypted
DVDs.

The "-o" option is used to select a given output layer. By default
dtsdec does a stereo downmix and outputs to your speakers, but you can
try other choices using this option. This is also used for performance
testing and conformance testing.

The "-c" option is used to disable all optimizations (currently only djbfft).

The "-r" option is used to disable the dynamic range compression.


OTHER PROJECTS USING LIBDTS

right now libdts is only being used by VLC media player
(http://www.videolan.org/) a cross-platform video player and streaming
solution.

If you use libdts in another project, let us know !


TASKS

There are several places where we could easily use some help:

      *	Testing: If you find any stream that does not decode right
	with libdts, let us know ! The best thing would be to mail to
	the libdts-devel mailing list. Also if you have access to
	encoders, we'd love to get test streams that would be free of
	rights - so that we can put them on this server.

      *	Coding: you can have a look in the TODO file first ! The most
	important items are probably to finish implementing the full
        specification and to make sure of the accuracy of the audio output.

      *	Porting: If you're porting to a new architecture, you might
	want to experiment with the compile flags defined in
	configure.in . When you figure out whats fastest on your
	platform, send us a patch !


REFERENCES

The DTS Coherent Acoustics standard (ETSI 102 114 v1.2.1), as published by the
ETSI, is available at http://pda.etsi.org/pda/queryform.asp (look for DTS
Coherent Acoustics)


SVN REPOSITORY

The latest libdts and dtsdec source code can always be found by anonymous
SVN repository:

# svn co svn://svn.zoy.org/dtsdec

SUPPORT / MAILING LISTS

See the support information at http://www.videolan.org/support/

libdts-devel

This is the main mailing list for technical discussion about
libdts. Anyone wanting to work on libdts, or maybe just stay informed
about the development process, should probably subscribe to this list.
